---
layout: post
title:  "Why Ruby?"
date:   2015-09-14 16:14:00
categories: category
comments: true
---
So what's so special about Ruby, and all of a sudden everybody's talking about that?
Let me start off, with "Why Ruby" from my poing of view. 

<h3>First, a little history.</h3>
I've started learning how to program, in an english language school here in Greece, 
at the age of 9 or 10, if I remember correctly. The first programming language I've ever seen there
was [GW-Basic][gwbasic] and I was astonished about the things I could do to a computer.
I mean, I was a 9 or 10 year old boy, and I could make a computer write my name. It was pretty awesome.
I remember I spent nights over nights to write things in there so I can see them run. And then I bragged 
to everybody (even if they didn't care) that this thing in there it was I who has made it happen.

After all that I've taken the next step and (through the same english language school) I've worked 
with [Turbo Pascal][turbopascal]. Of course at that time, since I started to discover all the new things 
this gave me, I wanted to scream from happiness. After that C++ came, Java, Prolog, SML, Sybase Powerbuilder 
and Delphi came into my life.

I started quite some time ago, to want to learn something new, to escape from the development environment
I use in my everyday job. Then a really good friend of mine, suggested Ruby. To tell the truth in the beginning
I've started immediately working with Rails, but for a programmer that was the very first time
that worked with [MVC][mvc] it was really out of the box.

A couple of years later I got my hands on the book "[Sever Languages in Seven Weeks][7l7w]" that started with Ruby.
That was it. I was brought back 25 years in time, like that little 9 or 10 year old kid that was amazed by programming.

<h3>Seriously, why Ruby?</h3>
So, what's so special about Ruby? More or less in every other blog you'll find the following:

<h4>1. Everything in Ruby is an object!</h4>
Yeap. Consider that. Everything in Ruby IS an object. Let's see a demonstration:

{% highlight ruby %}
irb(main):001:0> 1.class
=> Fixnum
irb(main):003:0> 1.0.class
=> Float
irb(main):002:0> "One".class
=> String
irb(main):002:0> nil.class
=> NilClass
irb(main):009:0> :one.class
=> Symbol
{% endhighlight %}

Yeap even nil is an instance of the NilClass!!! (too many "yeaps" in there)

<h4>2. Ruby is dynamically typed</h4>
You can actually do the following:
{% highlight ruby %}
irb(main):001:0> x = 1
=> 1
irb(main):002:0> x = "one"
=> "one"
irb(main):007:0> x = [1, 2, "three"]
=> [1, 2, "three"]
{% endhighlight %}

End of story :)

<h4>3. Elegant syntax</h4>
This was the best thing I loved about Ruby. The syntax that Ruby allows you to use, is really simple
and quite understandable, in many cases even from people that know nothing about programming.
From one line conditional statements
{% highlight ruby %}
puts x if x == 1
{% endhighlight %}

to multiple assignment
{% highlight ruby %}
a, b, c = 1, 2, 3
{% endhighlight %}

and to optional return statements (last statement value is returned by default)
{% highlight ruby %}
def func(x)
  x = x * 2
end
{% endhighlight %}

Ruby is easy to write, read and learn.

<h4>4. The community</h4>
The last, but certainly not least, important thing is the community that exists in the Ruby universe.
From [Stackoverflow][stackoverflow] to [GitHub][github] and to [Ruby meetup groups][thessrb] 
there is a pretty large community to help find and solve pretty much every problem (ok it's a little too much but you got the point).


<h2>Personal note</h2>
As you undestood I'm pretty much a Ruby-newbie here. Feel free to add your remarks in the comment area
for any, and possible, error I might have done here.

[gwbasic]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GW-BASIC
[turbopascal]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turbo_Pascal
[mvc]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller
[7l7w]: https://pragprog.com/book/btlang/seven-languages-in-seven-weeks
[stackoverflow]: http://stackoverflow.com/
[github]: https://github.com/
[thessrb]: http://thessrb.io/